# HQECC-Threshold
Hyperbolic Quantum Error Correction Codes Threshold. 

This repository contains the accompanying source code for the paper "A Systematic Approach to Hyperbolic Quantum Error Correction Codes".

## Running the Python file
It's recommended to use a version of python >= 3.10.6
```
python3 -m venv .venv
. .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
python hyperbolic_code_threshold.py
```
The python file is the same file that was used to generate Figure 3 in the paper. We encourage reading through the code carefully before running it. Here is a brief overview of what the code does.

### High-level overview
A periodic \{p, q\} hyperbolic lattice, corresponding to a \{p_B, q_B\} Bravais lattice with N faces, is generated along with its associated quantum circuit. Each data point in the figure is produced using the following procedure:

Random Pauli Z errors are applied to the physical qubits based on the current error probability. Using Minimum Weight Perfect Matching (MWPM), we determine whether the resulting correction paths lead to a logical error, based on the logical operators identified by the Hyperbolic Cycle Basis algorithm. If a logical error occurs, the logical error counter is incremented.

This process is repeated for a fixed number of trials (default: 10,000), and the logical error probability is computed as the ratio of logical errors to total trials. The entire procedure is repeated for varying values of N, the number of faces.

To speed up the trials, we utilize Python's multiprocessing library. For 10000 trials, it takes 6+ hours on an 8-core machine to generate the figure. The number of trials can be adjusted to control the accuracy and runtime.

Some drawings have been turned off by default. Namely, the graphs for the hyperbolic {p,q} lattice before and after imposing the periodic boundary conditions as well as the syndrome graph generated by the MWPM algorithm. This can be overriden as desired by setting `draw=True` in the various places where it is currently set to `False`. 

## Algorithm annotation
The paper describes three algorithms in detail. To make it easier to know where in the python file those algorithms are, we have annotated the code with commented lines such as `# Algorithm 1 Step 2` and `# Algorithm 3 Step 5`.

## Feedback
We would love to hear your thoughts! If you have ideas for improvement or see a problem, feel free to open an issue in this repo [here](https://github.com/AhmeedAdelMahmoud/HQECC-Threshold/issues). Alternatively, feel free to connect with us directly at: Ahmed (iag579@usask.ca) & Kamal (kmali@mun.ca).

## License
[Apache License 2.0](./LICENSE)
